Update metrics for .NET 8 changes (#36781)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/diagnostics/metrics-instrumentation.md

> **Prerequisites**: [.NET Core 3.1 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet) or a later version

Reviewer: Should we update '.NET Core 3.1' to '.NET 6'?  .NET Core 3.1 is no longer supported.

### Best practices

- For code that is not designed for use in a Dependency Injection (DI) container, create the Meter once and store it in a static variable. For usage in DI-aware libraries static variables are
considered an anti-pattern and the [DI example](#getting-a-meter-via-dependency-injection) below shows a more idiomatic approach. Each library or library subcomponent can
(and often should) create its own <xref:System.Diagnostics.Metrics.Meter>. Consider creating a new Meter rather than reusing an existing one if you anticipate
app developers would appreciate being able to easily enable and disable the groups of metrics separately.

- The name passed to the <xref:System.Diagnostics.Metrics.Meter> constructor should be unique to distinguish it from other Meters. We recommend

> [OpenTelemetry naming guidelines](https://github.com/open-telemetry/semantic-conventions/blob/main/docs/general/metrics.md#general-guidelines)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[OpenTelemetry naming guidelines](https://github.com/open-telemetry/semantic-conventions/blob/main/docs/general/metrics.md#general-guidelines),
```

> which use dotted hierarchical names. Assembly names or namespace names for code being instrumented are usually a good choice. If an assembly is adding instrumentation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
which use dotted hierarchical names. Assembly names or namespace names for code being instrumented are usually a good choice. If an assembly adds instrumentation
```

for code in a second, independent assembly, the name should be based on the assembly that defines the Meter, not the assembly whose code is being instrumented.

- .NET doesn't enforce any naming scheme for Instruments, but we recommend following

> [OpenTelemetry naming guidelines](https://github.com/open-telemetry/semantic-conventions/blob/main/docs/general/metrics.md#general-guidelines) which use dotted hierarchical names

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[OpenTelemetry naming guidelines](https://github.com/open-telemetry/semantic-conventions/blob/main/docs/general/metrics.md#general-guidelines), which use dotted hierarchical names
```

> and an '_' as the separator between multiple words in the same element. Beware that not all metric tools preserve the Meter name as part of the final metric name so it is beneficial

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and an underscore ('_') as the separator between multiple words in the same element. Not all metric tools preserve the Meter name as part of the final metric name, so it's beneficial
```

```dotnetcli
> dotnet tool update -g dotnet-counters
You can invoke the tool using the following command: dotnet-counters
Tool 'dotnet-counters' (version '7.0.430602') was successfully installed.
```

While the example app is still running, use dotnet-counters to monitor the new counter:

```dotnetcli
> dotnet-counters monitor -n metric-demo.exe --counters HatCo.Store
Press p to pause, r to resume, q to quit.
    Status: Running

[HatCo.Store]
    hatco.store.hats_sold (Count / 1 sec)                          4
```

As expected, you can see that HatCo store is steadily selling 4 hats each second.

## Get a Meter via dependency injection

> In the previous example, the Meter was obtained by constructing it with `new` and assigning it to a static field. Using statics this way is not a good approach when using dependency

Reviewer: Should we mention that Meter DI was added in .NET 8?

Reviewer: Please disregard - I see that .NET 8 was mentioned earlier.

```dotnetcli
> dotnet tool update -g dotnet-counters
You can invoke the tool using the following command: dotnet-counters
Tool 'dotnet-counters' (version '7.0.430602') was successfully installed.
```

While the example app is still running, use dotnet-counters to monitor the new counter:

```dotnetcli
> dotnet-counters monitor -n metric-demo.exe --counters HatCo.Store
Press p to pause, r to resume, q to quit.
    Status: Running

[HatCo.Store]
    hatco.store.hats_sold (Count / 1 sec)                          4
```

As expected, you can see that HatCo store is steadily selling 4 hats each second.

> ## Getting a Meter via Dependency Injection

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Get a Meter via dependency injection
```

> In the example above we obtained the Meter by constructing it with `new` and assigning it to a static field. Using statics this way is not a good approach when using Dependency

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the previous example, the Meter was obtained by constructing it with `new` and assigning it to a static field. Using statics this way is not a good approach when using dependency
```

> Injection (DI). In code that uses DI such as ASP.NET Core, or apps with [Generic Host](../extensions/generic-host.md) create the Meter object using

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
injection (DI). In code that uses DI, such as ASP.NET Core or apps with [Generic Host](../extensions/generic-host.md), create the Meter object using
```

> <xref:System.Diagnostics.Metrics.IMeterFactory>. Starting in .NET 8 hosts will automatically register <xref:System.Diagnostics.Metrics.IMeterFactory> in the service container

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<xref:System.Diagnostics.Metrics.IMeterFactory>. Starting in .NET 8, hosts will automatically register <xref:System.Diagnostics.Metrics.IMeterFactory> in the service container
```

or you can manually register the type in any <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.IServiceCollection> by calling <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.MetricsServiceExtensions.AddMetrics%2A>.

> The meter factory integrates metrics with DI, keeping Meters in different service collections isolated from each other even if they are using an identical name. This is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The meter factory integrates metrics with DI, keeping Meters in different service collections isolated from each other even if they use an identical name. This is
```

> especially useful for testing so that multiple tests running in parallel will only observe measurements produced from within the same test case.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
especially useful for testing so that multiple tests running in parallel only observe measurements produced from within the same test case.
```

To obtain a Meter in a type designed for DI, add an <xref:System.Diagnostics.Metrics.IMeterFactory> parameter to the constructor, then call
<xref:System.Diagnostics.Metrics.MeterFactoryExtensions.Create%2A>. This example shows adding IMeterFactory to an ASP.NET Core MVC controller type:

```cs
public class HatStoreController : Controller
{
    private readonly Counter<int> _hatsSold;

    public HatStoreController(IMeterFactory meterFactory)
    {
        var meter = meterFactory.Create("HatCo.Store");
        _hatsSold = meter.CreateCounter<int>("hatco.store.hats_sold");
        // Other methods in this class can now use the _hatsSold counter to increment the count.

>     }

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure we'd want to suggest this as an option at all. A new `Controller` instance is created for every request.

I know Meter and counters are cached, so it doesn't matter too much, but it feels clean to "create" these types once in their own type like is suggested immediately below.

Author: Removed

```

Instead of adding the `IMeterFactory` to an existing type, you could also create a new type dedicated to managing some metrics. This pattern has a better separation of concerns
in exchange for being a bit more verbose.

```cs
public class HatCoMetrics
{
    private readonly Counter<int> _hatsSold;

    public HatCoMetrics(IMeterFactory meterFactory)
    {
        var meter = meterFactory.Create("HatCo.Store");
        _hatsSold = meter.CreateCounter<int>("hatco.store.hats_sold");
    }

    public void HatsSold(int quantity)
    {
        _hatsSold.Add(quantity);
    }
}
```

Register the type with DI container in `Program.cs`.

```cs
var builder = WebApplication.CreateBuilder(args);
builder.Services.AddSingleton<HatCoMetrics>();
```

> Inject the metrics type and record values where needed. Because the metrics type is registered in DI it can be used with MVC controllers, minimal APIs, or any other type that is created by DI:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Inject the metrics type and record values where needed. Because the metrics type is registered in DI, it can be used with MVC controllers, minimal APIs, or any other type that is created by DI:
```

class Program
{
    static Meter s_meter = new Meter("HatCo.Store");
    static Counter<int> s_hatsSold = s_meter.CreateCounter<int>("hatco.store.hats_sold");

>     static Histogram<int> s_orderProcessingTimeMs = s_meter.CreateHistogram<int>("hatco.store.order_processing_time");

Reviewer 3: Change to seconds? Change type to long? Also, add "s" as unit

Reviewer 3: I see this in recommendations:

> For timing things, Histogram is usually preferred. Often it's useful to understand the tail of these distributions (90th, 95th, 99th percentile) rather than averages or totals.

Recommend seconds?

Author: I changed it to seconds, but didn't include seconds in the unit because we haven't reached a discussion of units in the doc yet.

### Best practices

- .NET APIs allow any string to be used as the unit, but we recommend using [UCUM](https://ucum.org/), an international standard for unit names. The curly

> braces around "{hats}" is part of the UCUM standard indicating that it is a descriptive annotation rather than a unit name with a standardized meaning like seconds or meters.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
braces around "{hats}" is part of the UCUM standard, indicating that it is a descriptive annotation rather than a unit name with a standardized meaning like seconds or bytes.
```
To avoid confusion about the different meanings of meter.

Author: good call... I didn't even notice that.

> [!NOTE]
> OpenTelemetry refers to tags as 'attributes'. These are two different names for the same functionality.

> ## Testing custom metrics

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Test custom metrics
```

Its possible to test any custom metrics you add using <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.Telemetry.Testing.Metering.MetricCollector%601>. This type makes it easy to record the measurements
from specific instruments and assert the values were correct.

> ### Testing with Dependency Injection

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Test with dependency injection
```

> An example test case for code components that use Dependency Injection and IMeterFactory:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following code shows an example test case for code components that use dependency injection and IMeterFactory.
```

```csharp
public class MetricTests
{
    [Fact]
    public void SaleIncrementsHatsSoldCounter()
    {
        // Arrange
        var services = CreateServiceProvider();
        var metrics = services.GetRequiredService<HatCoMetrics>();
        var meterFactory = services.GetRequiredService<IMeterFactory>();
        var collector = new MetricCollector<int>(meterFactory, "HatCo.Store", "hatco.store.hats_sold");

        // Act
        metrics.HatsSold(15);

        // Assert
        var measurements = collector.GetMeasurementSnapshot();
        Assert.Equal(1, measurements.Count);
        Assert.Equal(15, measurements[0].Value);
    }

    // Setup a new service provider. This example creates the collection explicitly but you might leverage
    // a host or some other application setup code to do this as well.
    private static IServiceProvider CreateServiceProvider()
    {

>         ServiceCollection collection = new ServiceCollection();

Reviewer 4: >collection [](http://example.com/codeflow?start=26&length=10)

nit: will be better calling it `servceCollection`.

Reviewer 2: But don't forget the `i`.

Reviewer 4: I fixed it :-)

        collection.AddMetrics();
        collection.AddSingleton<HatCoMetrics>();
        return collection.BuildServiceProvider();
    }
}
```

Each MetricCollector object records all measurements for one Instrument. If you need to verify measurements from multiple instruments, create one MetricCollector for each one.

> ### Testing without Dependency Injection

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Test without dependency injection
```

It is also possible to test code that uses a shared global Meter object in a static field, but make sure such tests are configured not to run in parallel. Because the
Meter object is being shared, MetricCollector in one test will observe the measurements created from any other tests running in parallel.

```csharp
class HatCoMetricsWithGlobalMeter
{
    static Meter s_meter = new Meter("HatCo.Store");
    static Counter<int> s_hatsSold = s_meter.CreateCounter<int>("hatco.store.hats_sold");

    public void HatsSold(int quantity)
    {
        s_hatsSold.Add(quantity);
    }
}

public class MetricTests
{
    [Fact]
    public void SaleIncrementsHatsSoldCounter()
    {
        // Arrange
        var metrics = new HatCoMetricsWithGlobalMeter();
        // Be careful specifying scope=null. This binds the collector to a global Meter and tests
        // that use global state should not be configured to run in parallel.

>         var collector = new MetricCollector<int>(null, "HatCo.Store", "hatco.store.hats_sold");

Reviewer 3: Should `MetricCollector` have a ctor that doesn't have a scope argument?

Author: It does have ctors like (Meter, string) and (Instrument), but it was intentional not to offer a ctor that takes a meter name string binds in global scope by default.
